Everything about Enjoy Life Forever!
is different from any other publication
we’ve produced in the past.
And from the start of the project,
two things were critical:
good communication and good documentation.
But honestly, time and again,
the thing that proved
to be the most important
was reliance on Jehovah.
The Writing Committee’s goal was to create
a first-class digital experience
that would engage Bible students.
The digital design system
had to be completely remodeled
so that Enjoy Life Forever!  would look uniform
whether it’s viewed in JW Library®,
on jw.org, or in print.
Right from the inception of this project,
the brothers looked for input
so that the study material would be
easily available
in as many languages as possible.
And for that reason,
a team from Translation Services
worked along with the writers.
A publication of this size would usually take
about two or three years to complete,
but the Writing Committee
was really interested
in getting the Enjoy Life Forever!  book
out there as soon as possible.
The Enjoy Life Forever!  book
required an intense amount of collaboration.
Right from the beginning,
the Writing Committee
got all six departments together
so we could work unitedly
through the production.
Our existing tool set didn’t have the ability
to style digital publications
like we can with print.
We could do black text
on a white background with gray boxes.
That was the extent of the functionality
that we had available.
Enjoy Life Forever!
is very interactive for the student.
When producing the audio
for this publication,
we endeavored to maintain that feel.
So we added multiple voices, musical cues
and, in some cases,
the audio track for the video
was reedited to teach the point effectively.
When we got to Lesson 32,
we felt that it might be too complicated
to build as a digital experience,
but that’s when
the collaboration really paid off.
It took every tool that we had
and basically every trick in order to build
the digital version of that lesson.
As we were working on the prototype,
we would collaborate
with the User Experience Group
to make sure that the look and feel
of the digital edition
was the same whether it was on a large device
or a small device.
The entire chart is a visual aid.
So we wanted to be sure
that all of our users,
especially those who are visually impaired,
would be able to understand
the teaching point.
This required us to build the chart
so that screen readers could read the text
and that each picture would have
a description for those who needed it.
Early in the concept stage,
we understood that there would be
about 200 videos in this publication,
requiring thousands of hours of work:
eight brand new videos
and of the remaining videos,
around 60 would need to be edited.
Just as eight new videos
were entering their production phase,
COVID-19 hit,
effectively halting
video production around the world.
This work stoppage continued
until each branch could determine
how they could film safely
and still meet the deadline
only nine months away.
Because of the pandemic,
photo sessions here at headquarters
were completely stopped for four months.
Now, as things progressed,
we were able to resume photography,
only by adhering to strict protocols.
For example,
we had a family photograph themselves
while being directed
by the Art Department here.
So everything that a Bible study conductor
had been trained to do
—ask all the important questions,
develop love for Jehovah
in their Bible students, show videos—
it’s all built into the publication.
So would the concept work
with actual Bible students?
To find out, we did in-house testing.
And then at the same time,
we sent out the lessons
around the world to publishers, pioneers,
missionaries, and circuit overseers.
And they used the lessons
with actual Bible students.
We tested every lesson of the book this way.
And then the responses
that we got back were analyzed,
and we made further refinements.
We had hundreds of team meetings,
and we felt Jehovah’s holy spirit
equipping all of us
after we opened a meeting with prayer.
When you collaborate,
you get a better product.
It’s more direct, simpler,
and easier to understand.
Also, thinking ahead
about potential translation problems
and addressing them
helped expedite translation
in hundreds of languages.
I feel that Jehovah helped us
accomplish this job
in a shorter amount of time
and a quality
that would have been very difficult
even under normal circumstances.
How amazing Jehovah is!